# ripekeys
RIPE keywords

Having been inspired by Christopher Marcum's methodology (http://chrismarcum.com/wikka.php?wakka=PublicASRMethods) for visualising the top keywords in the American Sociological Review over the past decade, I produced a similar figure for the Review of International Political Economy.

I extracted the raw data - all published articles in RIPE from 1994 to today, with full bibliometric data - from Web of Science, 895 records in total from January 1, 1994 to September 24, 2017. Keywords were extracted from the ID and DE fields in the database, respectively the author and publisher keywords. However, keywords are only systematically (if at all) available from January 1, 2010, which is then naturally the lower bound for my timeline and dataset. I structured the data, recording year and keyword with my cleaning and stemming (punctuation and immediate analogs). This gave a list of 2371 non-unique, 1150 unique keywords. The top 50 keywords were truncated to the nearest-lowest frequency tie (n=8) (as per Marcum). This gave a final top list of 42 keywords, the 97% quantile of the frequency distribution. This data was loaded and visualised in R using ggplot.

In addition, I visualised the relative frequency of the top 10 keywords (count>19) over time. Here, I gathered the year, keyword, annual count and annual global percentage (as a fraction of all RIPE keywords in the given year) of each of the top10. This data was loaded and visualised in R with also using ggplot.

Finally, I added a network graph of the top decile keywords using Gephi. Here, I linked each keyword to keywords mentioned in the same paper, from the raw data, as a network matrix, and a node list. This data was loaded into Gephi and degree centrality calculated (on the full network). Then, I limited the network visualisation to only nodes with >328 (the top decile) degree centrality, and sized nodes based on the global degree score. I then colour partitioned the top decile using modularity class score. These are the colour codings you see above, which expresses communities more densely connected amongst each other than compared to the rest of the plot. The layout of the network is plotted using ForceAtlas2. It is a complex algorithm but we can at least highlight that keywords relatively more closely connected (e.g. keywords more often listed in the same paper) are laid out spatially closer to each other.

All code and visualisations is available in this repository.
